Enable support to TLS in Confluent Schema Registry (#208)
kudobuilder/frameworks: repository/confluent-schema-registry/docs/v1.0/security.md

# Security

> The Confluent Schema Registry service supports native transport **encryption**, **authentication**, and **authorization** mechanisms to connect with Kafka’s brokers configured for secured connections. The service provides automation and orchestration to simplify the use of these important features. For more information on Confluent Schema Registry’s security while connecting with Kafka Brokers over secured connections, read the [security](https://docs.confluent.io/current/kafka/encryption.html#sr) section of official Confluent Schema Registry documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The KUDO Confluent Schema Registry service supports Confluent Schema Registry's native transport **encryption** mechanism to connect with Kafka’s brokers configured for secured connections. The service provides automation and orchestration to simplify the use of these important features. For more information on Confluent Schema Registry’s security, read the [security](https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/security/index.html) section of official Confluent Schema Registry documentation.
```

Author: @shubhanilBag This sentence `while connecting with Kafka Brokers over secured connections` is crucial since we're only targeting the connectivity of SR with Kafka brokers over SSL (And thus documentation is about that only, otherwise link will be https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/security/index.html)

Reviewer: It under a general `#Security` header, plus you are already mentioning that in the first sentence. It 's better to provide the official **Schema Registry** docs that contain all details rather than providing only a link from Confluent Kafka's(which we are not supporting) doc

## Encryption

By default, KUDO Kafka brokers use the plaintext protocol for its inter-broker communication. It is recommended to enable the TLS encryption, to secure the communication between brokers. The Confluent Schema Registry can be configured to connect with Kafka brokers over a secure connection with an appropriate encryption mechanism.

### Enabling TLS encryption

> To connect Confluent Schema Registry with Kafka Brokers configured with TLS, get the TLS certificate and key that is used for Kafka TLS encryptions to create a new Kubernetes TLS secret for Confluent Schema Registry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect KUDO Confluent Schema Registry with Kafka Brokers configured with TLS, the same TLS certificate and key that is used to setup Kafka's transport encryption needs to be used to create a new Kubernetes TLS secret.
```

> Here, we are assuming that the TLS Certificate file name is `tls.cert` and key name is `tls.key` that is used for Kafka TLS encryptions. We create a new Kubernetes TLS secret for Confluent Schema Registry as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we are assuming that the TLS Certificate file name is `tls.cert` and key name is `tls.key` that is used for Kafka TLS encryptions. We create a new Kubernetes TLS secret for KUDO Confluent Schema Registry as:
```

```
$ kubectl create secret tls confluent-schema-registry-tls --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key
```

> :warning: Make sure to create the certificate in the same namespace where the KUDO Kafka is being installed.

Reviewer 2: same namespace as `confluent schema registry` is being installed

Author: I have made correction. Thanks for the review @zmalik!

> :warning: Make sure to create the certificate in the same namespace where the Confluent Schema Registry is being installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: Make sure to create the certificate in the same namespace where the KUDO Confluent Schema Registry is being installed.
```

Now, to connect with Kafka Brokers configured with TLS:

> - Provide Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of each Kafka Broker(s) as `bootstrap.servers` parameter to connect with Kafka successfully. Eg. `KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS="SSL://kafka-kafka-0.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-1.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-2.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assuming we are connecting to a KUDO Kafka instance with [transport encryption enabled](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/blob/master/repository/kafka/docs/latest/security.md#enabling--tls-encryption) pass the list of Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN) of each Kafka Broker as `bootstrap.servers` parameter. 
```

- Make the `TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ENABLED` parameter value as `true`.
- Supply the secret created before i.e. `confluent-schema-registry-tls` to be passed as parameter `TLS_SECRET_NAME`.

```
$ kubectl kudo install confluent-schema-registry \
    --instance=schema-registry  \
    -p KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS="SSL://kafka-kafka-0.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-1.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-2.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095" \
    -p TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ENABLED=true \
    -p TLS_SECRET_NAME=confluent-schema-registry-tls
```

## Authentication

Confluent Schema Registry service supports connecting with Kafka broker's configured with TLS authentication mechanism. TLS authentication requires TLS encryption to be enabled. 

> The configuration of TLS authentication while connecting with Kafka brokers is a superset of the required Kafka Broker's configurations that enables TLS encryption and also TLS authentication. Its not possible to enable only the TLS authentication without enabling the TLS encryption.

Reviewer: This part is already in kafka's docs linked here https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/pull/208/files#diff-92a4686d9d9fe796fdc4b8141e6d0794R42
KUDO SR doesn't  have any extra configuration to enable tls authentication

Author: Okay, will remove that.

> ### Configuration for KUDO Kafka for TLS Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authenticating REST Schema Registry with a secure Kafka Cluster
```

Author: Should it be rather: `Authenticating KUDO Schema Registry with a secure Kafka Cluster`?

Reviewer: right!

Follow the steps of [Enabling KUDO Kafka for TLS encryption](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/blob/master/repository/kafka/docs/latest/security.md#enabling--tls-encryption) and enable the TLS authentication by setting the parameter `SSL_AUTHENTICATION_ENABLED` to `true` as:

```
$ kubectl kudo install kafka \
  --instance=kafka \
    -p AUTHORIZATION_ENABLED=true \
    -p AUTHORIZATION_ALLOW_EVERYONE_IF_NO_ACL_FOUND=true \
    -p TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ENABLED=true \
    -p TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ALLOW_PLAINTEXT=false \
    -p SSL_AUTHENTICATION_ENABLED=true
```

Now, we can connect Confluent Schema Registry with Kafka Brokers using TLS Authentication, similar to the [TLS encryption](#enabling-tls-encryption):

```
$ kubectl kudo install confluent-schema-registry \
    --instance=schema-registry  \
    -p KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS="SSL://kafka-kafka-0.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-1.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-2.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095" \
    -p TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ENABLED=true \
    -p TLS_SECRET_NAME=confluent-schema-registry-tls
```

## Authorization

> The KUDO Kafka service supports Kafka’s ACL-based authorization system.  To use Kafka’s ACLs with Confluent Schema Registry as a client, TLS authentication must be enabled as detailed [above](#authentication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KUDO Confluent Schema Registry supports connecting to ACL authorization enabled Apache Kafka brokers.  To use Kafka’s ACLs with Confluent Schema Registry as a client, TLS authentication must be enabled as detailed [above](#authentication).
```

> ### Enable Authorization with TLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Authorizing REST Proxy with a secure Kafka Cluster
```

#### Prerequisites

* Completion of TLS authentication as detailed [above](#authentication).

> Install the KUDO Kafka service with the following options in addition to your own (remember, TLS authentication must be enabled):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the KUDO Kafka service with [TLS authorization enabled](https://github.com/kudobuilder/operators/blob/master/repository/kafka/docs/latest/security.md#example-with-tls):
```

```
$ kubectl kudo install kafka \
  --instance=kafka \
    -p ZOOKEEPER_URI=zk-zookeeper-0.zk-hs:2181,zk-zookeeper-1.zk-hs:2181,zk-zookeeper-2.zk-hs:2181 \
    -p BROKER_CPUS=200m \
    -p BROKER_COUNT=3 \
    -p BROKER_MEM=800m \
    -p DISK_SIZE=10Gi \
    -p AUTHORIZATION_ENABLED=true \
    -p AUTHORIZATION_ALLOW_EVERYONE_IF_NO_ACL_FOUND=false \
    -p AUTHORIZATION_SUPER_USERS="User:SchemaRegistryClient" \
    -p TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ENABLED=true \
    -p TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ALLOW_PLAINTEXT=false \
    -p SSL_AUTHENTICATION_ENABLED=true
```

> NOTE: Here, we need to supply `AUTHORIZATION_SUPER_USERS` parameter as the client name that we provide to our Confluent Schema Registry client. It can be configured by `SSL_AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_NAME` parameter of Schema Registry and its default value is `SchemaRegistryClient`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To grant super user permission to KUDO Confluent Schema Registry, the client name that is provided to Schema Registry needs to be added to the `AUTHORIZATION_SUPER_USERS` parameter for KUDO Kafka. The client name can be configured using `SSL_AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_NAME` parameter which has a default value  `SchemaRegistryClient`.
```

> Now, we can connect Confluent Schema Registry with Kafka Brokers using TLS Authentication, similar to the [TLS encryption](#enabling-tls-encryption), by supplying the client name to the `SSL_AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_NAME` parameter, as configured in Kafka Broker's ACL during KUDO Kafka's deployment:

Reviewer: @vibhujain  The instructions in this paragraph is kinda repeated with the paragraph above

Author: I know but we need to supply Client name on both the sides as parameters. I need to refactor the docs for more clarity and to avoid repetition but reinstantiate that we need it as a parameter while deploying both services.

Reviewer: it can be better this way
```
Now, we can connect Confluent Schema Registry with Kafka Brokers using TLS Authentication, similar to the [TLS encryption](#enabling-tls-encryption):
```

Author: While keeping  your suggestion made for L92, I propose L94 can be:
`Suggestive example of connecting KUDO Schema Registry with KUDO Kafka using TLS authentication with client name specified as above:`

Author: It will look like:
 
NOTE: To grant super user permission to KUDO Confluent Schema Registry, the client name that is provided to Schema Registry needs to be added to the `AUTHORIZATION_SUPER_USERS` parameter for KUDO Kafka. The client name can be configured using `SSL_AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_NAME` parameter which has a default value  `SchemaRegistryClient`. 

Suggestive example of connecting KUDO Schema Registry with KUDO Kafka using TLS authentication with client name specified as above:

```
$ kubectl kudo install confluent-schema-registry \
    --instance=schema-registry  \
    -p KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS="SSL://kafka-kafka-0.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-1.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095,SSL://kafka-kafka-2.kafka-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:9095" \
    -p TRANSPORT_ENCRYPTION_ENABLED=true \
    -p TLS_SECRET_NAME=confluent-schema-registry-tls \
    -p SSL_AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_NAME=SchemaRegistryClient
```

Reviewer: ~~Suggestive~~ Example of connecting KUDO Schema Registry with KUDO Kafka using TLS authentication with client name specified as above:
